## CosmoCombo

CosmoCombo is an interactive code for exploring constraints on 
cosmological models from combinations of data. The main features are:

- Read in chains of model parameters generated by Markov chain Monte Carlo 
  (MCMC).
- Use importance sampling to add prior probabilities and constraints from
  additional data sets.
- Compute basic statistics for model parameters (mean and median, 
  confidence intervals, etc.).
- Plot 1D and 2D projections of the probability distributions from 
  different combinations of data sets, and customize and 
  save the resulting plots.
- Save and restore previous sessions.

The main script is `CosmoCombo.py`. Running it will bring up a menu of options.
Usually the first steps are to set up a new joint constraint and then 
load an MCMC parameter file.

### Getting started

1. Go to the [Planck Legacy Archive] and change the "Release" tab to 
   "PR1 - 2013" (this accesses the first Planck data release; the second
   release is not yet supported).
1. Use the menus to navigate to the "Cosmology Products" page, then select the
   "Cosmological Parameters" category and download 
   `COM_CosmoParams_base_planck_lowl_lowLike_post_lensing_R1.10.tar.gz`.
   (If you have trouble finding this file, try [this link].)
1. Move the downloaded file to a directory and extract the files 
   (`tar -xzvf` followed by the name of the downloaded file). The following
   steps assume the files are in a directory called `/mcmc`, but you
   can put them anywhere as long as you substitute your directory for 
   `/mcmc` below.
1. Go to the CosmoCombo directory and start the program (`./CosmoCombo.py`).
1. Select "Set up new joint constraint" (option 0). Enter `Planck` as the label
   and choose LCDM for the model class.
1. Select "Add MCMC chain" from the menu and choose the constraint "Planck".
   For the chain file names, enter
   `/mcmc/base_planck_lowl_lowLike_post_lensing/base/planck_lowl_lowLike/base_planck_lowl_lowLike_post_lensing_[1-8].txt`.
   (Make sure to enter the full directory path if there are any problems 
   with this step; e.g. write out your home directory instead of using `~`.)
1. Enter `Planck LCDM` as the chain label and enter `0`, `0`, `1`, `2`, and 
   `0` for the next five questions.
1. At the main menu again, select "Compute marginalized 1D statistics" and 
   choose the constraint "Planck".
1. Enter `l` to see all of the available parameters, then enter `omegam sigma8`
   and choose "mean and standard deviation". You should see
   `omegam = 0.306 +/- 0.0133` and `sigma8 = 0.823 +/- 0.00954`.
1. At the main menu, select "Set up plot" and enter `1` for each of the next
   two questions. An empty plot area should appear.
1. Choose "Plot constraint" from the menu and select the "Planck" constraint.
   Enter `omegam sigma8` again for the parameter names, then enter `0.25 0.37` 
   for the omegam limits and `0.77 0.87` for sigma8. Enter `0 0 1` for the 
   RGB values. You should see two blue contours, showing the 68% and 95% 
   confidence regions for the parameters omegam and sigma8.
1. Select "Save plot" from the menu; the plot will be saved as an eps file
   in a directory in `Plots/` labeled by the current date.
1. Keep exploring the options in the menu, or choose "Exit" for now. When you
   exit, the name of the log file for the session is displayed. A previous 
   session can be resumed by using the `-l` option to specify a session log 
   file, e.g. `./CosmoCombo.py -l session.PDT.12.34.56.log`. If there are
   multiple sessions with the same file name, the most recent one is selected
   by default; to use an older one instead, specify its directory name 
   with the `-d` option.



[Planck Legacy Archive]: http://pla.esac.esa.int/pla/
[this link]: http://pla.esac.esa.int/pla-sl/data-action?COSMOLOGY.COSMOLOGY_OID=703
